# CarDetect
Project to detect cars (and maybe eventually license plates) in videos that I took during bike rides. 

The inspiration for this was riding my road bike on roads without a shoulder and feeling like cars could care less about me. Most people would only pass me (over a double yellow line) when there was no oncoming traffic. But there was occasionally someone that would try to squeeze between me and the oncoming car - translating into almost running me off the road. So I started looking for ideas to mitigate if something were to happen. First I use an app on my phone that does two things 1/ tracks my postion such that my partner can see my location in real-time and 2/ detects "crashes" using my phones accelerometer. Good first step. The shock of someone coming so close to me was part of what was driving my concern. So I instaled a mirror on my handlbars so that I could see if someone was going to try and pass me and if so, whether they were giving me any room. This way I could prepare for what they were up to. Wanted to take this up a level, I started looking for real-time cameras that I could use in lieu of the mirror with the additional capability of recording (thinking ahead to the police report). Not seeing anything in the market, I mounted my GoPro on my seatpost facing back. It didn't have the realtime monitoring (so I kept the mirror) but it did a good job of recording.

Enter "AI" I have been thinking alot obout ways that different types of AI can improve MY life with the secondary goal of trying some stuff out and stretching my technical chops. In my last job at Amazon I was told that I was not perceived as being technical enough, which was an interesting bit of feedback since they had no idea what I was capable of and didn't give me any opportunities until they had already made up their mind. Anyway, I thought what better way to try some AI "stuff", learn a little more about Python, and get the satisfaction of building something - even though I hope that I will never need it.
